# Modeling-Cyber-Risk
Modeling human factors in cyber security risk with Bayesian networks

Current approaches to modeling cyber security risk assessment typically only include assets, the hardware and software of a cyber network, especially those based on the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Cyber security risk modeling methodologies which are currently utilised by tech industries and government agencies do not consider humans as risk initiators or mitigators. Human factors are considered primarily in terms of how users use networks, which help defenders and IT managers prioritize assets; while the defenders and IT managers consider risk from their perspective of how to best protect their system. Risk management within the context of the NIST framework does not consider humans as actual risk factors, initiators and mitigators of risk, and therefore potential components of a predictive model of network security risk. Attributes of the human actors, attackers, defenders, and users, such as experience, knowledge and cultural background, may significantly influence how human actors contribute to or mitigate cyber risk, and thus are appropriate parameters to include in a predictive cyber security risk model. In this paper, we extend our previous work conceptualizing a dynamic aggregated cybersecurity risk assessment model based on a Bayesian network, and incorporate variables representing critical risk-inducing and risk-mitigating human and cultural factors into a proof of concept. We introduce human factor parameters to incorporate attacker and defender skills into our modeling framework and integrate a country-based modifying threat factor. We use empirical distributions for the nodes in the Bayesian network, adapted from data observed and documented by studies of SQL injection attacks. Using empirical evidence gives a more versed view of how changes in the network affect the overall risk, in comparison to using theoretical assumptions. We discuss how including human factors contribute to altering risk in cyber networks, detailing the potential impacts and effects of human actors on risk posture, strategy, and response. We model and evaluate the risks for an SQL injection attack on a highly sensitive database server. We will discuss parametrization and validation of the model using empirical data obtained in the experiment on a virtual network test bed.
